doc: flpr and building for nrf54l15 (#17443)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/nrf54l/building_nrf54l.rst

.. _building_nrf54l:

Building and programming with nRF54L15 DK
#########################################

This guide provides instructions on how to build and program the nRF54L15 development kit.
Whether you are working with single or multi-image builds, the following sections will guide you through the necessary steps.

Depending on the sample, you must program only the application core or both the FLPR and the application core.
Additionally, the process will differ based on whether you are working with a single-image or multi-image build.

Building for the application core
*********************************

For instructions on building for the application core only, see how to :ref:`program an application <programming_cmd>`.

Building for the application and FLPR core
******************************************

This section outlines how to build and program for both the application and FLPR cores, covering separate builds and sysbuild configurations.

Separate images
---------------

> To build and program the application sample and the VPR sample as separate images, follow these steps:

Reviewer: So far the VPR is referred to as FLPR in this document. Introducing a new term might be confusing for a reader.
```suggestion
To build and program the application sample and the FLPR sample as separate images, follow these steps:
```

.. _building_nrf54l:

Building and programming with nRF54L15 DK
#########################################

This guide provides instructions on how to build and program the nRF54L15 development kit.
Whether you are working with single or multi-image builds, the following sections will guide you through the necessary steps.

> Depending on the sample, you must program only the application core or both the VPR and the application core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on the sample, you must program only the application core or both the FLPR and the application core.
```

Additionally, the process will differ based on whether you are working with a single-image or multi-image build.

Using the command line
======================

> To build samples supporting the nRF54L15 DK from the command line, use :ref:`west <zephyr:west>`.

Reviewer 2: Not sure how to organize this section, there are a few cases here:
- Building for APP only
- Building for both APP and FLPR
  - In separate builds
  - With sysbuild
     - Using VPR launcher
     - Using application that supports multi-image

Author: I tried to incorporate the new structure, please double-check

> For programming you can choose either west, incorporating nrfjprog that from the `nRF Command Line Tools`_, or :ref:`nRF Util <toolchain_management_tools>`.

Reviewer: I don't think nrfjprog supports nRF54L. This tool is deprecated.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Separate images

      To build and program the application sample and the VPR sample as separate images, follow the instructions in :ref:`programming_cmd` for each of the samples.

      See the following instructions for programming the images separately:

      .. tabs::

         .. group-tab:: west

            1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|

>             #. Run the following command to erase the flash memory of the VPR core and program the VPR sample:

Reviewer: The next steps suggest to navigate to the app folder. Should this one suggest navigating to the VPR build folder? BTW, in the nRF54L context, we probably should use this VPR instance FLPR - that's what it's called in IPS.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, we should replace all instances of `VPR` with `FLPR` here.

Author: replaced in both articles

               .. code-block:: console

                  west flash --erase

            #. Navigate to the build folder of the application sample and run the same command to erase the flash memory of the application core and program the application sample:

               .. code-block:: console

>                   west flash --erase

Reviewer: And this `--erase` option seems to have the same effect - removing the code programmed in the previous step.

         .. group-tab:: nRF Util

            1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|
            #. Run the following command to erase the flash memory of the VPR core and program the VPR sample:

               .. code-block:: console

                  nrfutil device program --firmware zephyr.hex --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_ALL --core Network

               .. note::
                    If you cannot locate the build folder of the VPR sample, look for a folder with one of these names inside the build folder of the application sample:

                    * :file:`rpc_host`
                    * :file:`hci_rpsmg`
                    * :file:`802154_rpmsg`

>                     * :file:`multiprotocol_rpmsg`

Reviewer: Is any of these samples supported on VPR in the next release scope?

Author: @masz-nordic could you please take a look at Hubert's comments?

Reviewer 2: None - this can be removed.

            #. Navigate to the build folder of the application sample and run the following command to erase the flash memory of the application core and program the application sample:

               .. code-block:: console

>                   nrfutil device program --firmware zephyr.hex  --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_ALL

Reviewer: The `ERASE_ALL` option looks like it would remove the VPR code programmed in the previous step. Is it intentional?

Reviewer 2: Seems to be copy-paste from 53, actual commands will be added later.

               .. note::
                    The application build folder will be in a sub-directory which is the name of the folder of the application

            #. Reset the development kit:

               .. code-block:: console

                  nrfutil device reset --reset-kind=RESET_PIN

      See :ref:`readback_protection_error` if you encounter an error.

   .. group-tab:: Sysbuild

      To build and program a sysbuild HEX file, follow the instructions in :ref:`programming_cmd` for the application core sample.

      To program the multi-image HEX file, you can use west or nRF Util.

      .. tabs::

         .. group-tab:: west

            Enter the following command to program multi-image builds for different cores:

            .. code-block:: console

               west flash

            .. note::
                 The minimum supported version of nrfjprog for multi-image builds for different cores is 10.21.0.

         .. group-tab:: nRF Util

            Enter the following commands to program multiple image builds for different cores:

            .. Commands TBD

            .. code-block:: console

>                nrfutil device program --firmware merged_CPUNET.hex --options verify=VERIFY_READ,chip_erase_mode=ERASE_CTRL_AP

Reviewer: Now I'm confused. This chapter is about nRF54L. There is no Network CPU in nRF54L. This command seems invalid.

Author: This was a draft based on nRF53 article, I left the command with the above line saying ".. Commands TBD", as I didn't have an input

*********************************

For instructions on building for the application core only, see how to :ref:`build an application <building>`.

Building for the application and FLPR core
******************************************

This section outlines how to build and program for both the application and FLPR core, covering separate builds and sysbuild configurations.
FLPR core supports two variants:

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr`` where FLPR runs from SRAM, which is the recommended method.
  To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr`` snippet.

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr/xip`` where FLPR runs from RRAM.
  To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr-xip`` snippet.

Separate images
---------------

To build and program the application sample and the FLPR sample as separate images, follow these steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      .. include:: /includes/vsc_build_and_run.txt

      3. Set the following options:

         * Board target to ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr`` (recommended) or ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr/xip``.

>          * Appropriate snippet depending on the selected board target.

Reviewer 3: 1. The recommended snippets selection does not align with the guide for building using CLI.
Appropriate snippets should be selected for the application's image, not for the flpr (or flpr/xip).
2. I miss another section explaining how to build the firmware for the application core.
3. Please, put a note that the VS Code extension does not fully support the FLPR on nRF54L15 - the users should not expect at least the debugging feature to work. I suggest to mark every section that includes any action concerning flpr and vscode as experimental (or not fully supported).

Reviewer 2: Ad. 1. Those snippets should be selected for application's image, see:
`the application core image must include the [...] snippet`
There are 2 snippets because FLPR can run either from SRAM or RRAM, which causes some overhead in devicetree and different handling on APP core side (when FLPR is running from RRAM, application core can skip copying code to SRAM).

Reviewer 2: I think the fact that this step is just under selecting board target to FLPR might be confusing.
It should be reiterated that the snippet is applied to app core image.

Author: I edited this section a bit to reflect this better + added a VS code support note - @FilipZajdel , @masz-nordic please double-check

.. _building_nrf54l:

Building and programming with nRF54L15 DK
#########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This guide provides instructions on how to build and program the nRF54L15 development kit.

> Whether you are working with single or multi-image builds, the following sections will guide you through the necessary steps.

Reviewer 4: I'd like to see information how this procedure for nRF54L15 is different from the general Building and programming steps described here: https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/app_dev/config_and_build/building.html or at least a statement that this process is different or complements the general procedure.

Depending on the sample, you must program only the application core or both the Fast Lightweight Peripheral Processor (FLPR) and the application core.
Additionally, the process will differ based on whether you are working with a single-image or multi-image build.

Building for the application core
*********************************

> For instructions on building for the application core only, see how to :ref:`program an application <programming_cmd>`.

Reviewer 4: This link points to https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/app_dev/programming.html which does not give any information about how to build. Link to `building` instead.

Again, does this mean that if I use a single-core build, I can use the general procedure? I'd suggest this is stated, as per my first comment.

Also, seeing the following sections: do I build with or without sysbuild? See one of my comments later.

Reviewer 2: If you only need an app core image, you should use standard procedure (default is with sysbuild).

Building for the application and FLPR core
******************************************

This section outlines how to build and program for both the application and FLPR core, covering separate builds and sysbuild configurations.
FLPR core supports two variants:

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr`` where FLPR runs from SRAM (recommended).
   To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr`` snippet.

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr/xip`` where FLPR runs from RRAM.
   To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr-xip`` snippet.

Separate images
---------------

To build and program the application sample and the FLPR sample as separate images, follow these steps:

.. tabs::

>    .. group-tab:: west

Reviewer 4: In all the general guides, we provide steps for both nRF Connect VS Code extension and command line. Examples: https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/installation/install_ncs.html and https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/app_dev/programming.html

Please mirror the same structure here. Having tabs for two of the command line tools and not for the extension is not great.

      1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|
      #. Build the application core image, and based on your build target include the appropriate snippet:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp -S nordic-flpr --no-sysbuild

      #. Flash the application core image by running the following command:

         .. code-block:: console

            west flash

      #. Build the FLPR core image:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr --no-sysbuild

      #. Once you have successfully built the FLPR core image, flash it onto your device:

         .. code-block:: console

            west flash

>    .. group-tab:: nRF Util

Reviewer 4: nRF Util is just a utility here, not the default development environment. VSC extension also uses nRF Util. This whole section should be part of nRF Util documentation. https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/nrfutil/page/nrfutil-device/guides/programming.html

I'll gladly help you coordinate the update of nRF Util docs, so that this PR and the update there go live together.

      1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|
      #. For the FLPR core, run the following command to erase the flash memory of the FLPR core and program the sample:

         .. Commands TBD

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil device program --firmware zephyr.hex --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_ALL --core Network

      #. For the application core, navigate to its build folder and run:

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil device program --firmware zephyr.hex  --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_ALL

         .. note::

>             The application build folder will be in a sub-directory which is the name of the folder of the application

Reviewer 5: AFAIK, FLPR doesn't have special memory regions set aside for it that have to be accessed in a special way, so you just program in the same way as you'd program the application firmware.

How it has to be programmed depends on whether you get one .hex file for FLPR and one .hex file for the application, or if you get a single combined .hex file. I don't know which one it is, someone else will have to confirm that. 

If it is one single .hex file, I'd suggest:

nrfutil device program --firmware <PATH TO COMBINED .HEX FILE> --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_ALL

If it's two separate .hex files, I'd suggest:

nrfutil device erase
nrfutil device program --firmware <PATH TO FLPR .HEX> --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_NONE
nrfutil device program --firmware <PATH TO APPLICATION .HEX --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_NONE

, with my <PATH TO (...)> replaced with the actual paths a user would get.

Reviewer 4: This nRF Util part is now being moved to nRF Util docs: https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nrfutil-rs/pull/2384

      #. Reset the development kit:

         .. Commands TBD

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil device reset --reset-kind=RESET_PIN

         See :ref:`readback_protection_error` if you encounter an error.

With sysbuild
-------------

> To build and program with sysbuild, complete the following steps:

Reviewer 4: Sysbuild is enabled by default in the NCS https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/app_dev/config_and_build/config_and_build_system.html#sysbuild_enabled_by_default , so how come we highlight this here?

Reviewer 2: I suggest renaming this to something along the lines of `Standard build` and putting this before `Separate images`.

Author: updated as suggested

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Using VPR Launcher

>       When using the VPR Launcher, the default configuration is employed for building with sysbuild targeting FLPR devices.

Reviewer 4: What is VPR Launcher and where can I read more about it?

Reviewer 2: This is the only documentation I am aware of:
https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/main/soc/nordic/common/vpr/Kconfig.sysbuild#L9-L11

Author: Added a sentence explaining the launcher is used only for starting the core. I don't think we need any additional documentation here

      This process involves creating a minimal image that will be flashed onto the application core.
      The primary function of this image is to transfer the FLPR code to the designated region (if necessary) and initiate the FLPR core.

      To build and flash both images, run the following command:

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr
         west flash

   .. group-tab:: Using application that supports multi-image builds

      If your application involves creating custom images for both the application core and the FLPR core, make sure to disable the VPR Launcher.

>       You can do this by disabling the ``SB_CONFIG_VPR_LAUNCHER`` option when building for the FLPR target.

Reviewer 4: Link to https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/app_dev/config_and_build/kconfig/index.html ?

Author: added

.. _building_nrf54l:

Building and programming with nRF54L15 DK
#########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This guide provides instructions on how to build and program the nRF54L15 development kit.
Whether you are working with single or multi-image builds, the following sections will guide you through the necessary steps.

> Depending on the sample, you must program only the application core or both the Fast Lightweight Peripheral Processor (FLPR) and the application core.

Reviewer 2: This does not take into account multi-image single-core builds.

> Depending on the sample, you must program only the application core or both the Fast Lightweight Peripheral Processor (FLPR) and the application core.

Reviewer: How about a note that these builds are not covered by this document, or that these are covered somewhere else (with a link)?

> Depending on the sample, you must program only the application core or both the Fast Lightweight Peripheral Processor (FLPR) and the application core.

Author: added a note in line 16, please check

******************************************

This section outlines how to build and program for both the application and FLPR core, covering separate builds and sysbuild configurations.
FLPR core supports two variants:

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr`` where FLPR runs from SRAM (recommended).
   To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr`` snippet.

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr/xip`` where FLPR runs from RRAM.
   To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr-xip`` snippet.

Separate images
---------------

To build and program the application sample and the FLPR sample as separate images, follow these steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: west

      1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|
      #. Build the application core image, and based on your build target include the appropriate snippet:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp -S nordic-flpr --no-sysbuild

      #. Flash the application core image by running the following command:

         .. code-block:: console

            west flash

>       #. Build the FLPR core image:

Reviewer 4: It's enough to link here for additional parameters: https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/app_dev/config_and_build/building.html#optional_build_parameters

>       #. Build the FLPR core image:

Author: added reference

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr --no-sysbuild

      #. Once you have sucessfully built the FLPR core image, flash it onto your device:

         .. code-block:: console

            west flash

   .. group-tab:: nRF Util

      1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|
      #. For the FLPR core, run the following command to erase the flash memory of the FLPR core and program the sample:

         .. Commands TBD

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil device program --firmware zephyr.hex --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_ALL --core Network

      #. For the application core, navigate to its build folder and run:

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil device program --firmware zephyr.hex  --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_ALL

         .. note::
            The application build folder will be in a sub-directory which is the name of the folder of the application

      #. Reset the development kit:

         .. Commands TBD

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil device reset --reset-kind=RESET_PIN

>          See :ref:`readback_protection_error` if you encounter an error.

Author: @masz-nordic are these instructions correct?

Reviewer 2: I doubt it, but I use west commands. Someone from nrfutil team should chip in here.

Reviewer: They seem incorrect to me

Author: @bjorgan could you please help verify these instructions?

Reviewer 4: nRF Util command usage should be documented in the nRF Util docs.

Author: removed from here

> With sysbuild

Reviewer: I'm missing an instruction how to build an application image that uses sysbuild to include FLPR as sub-image. I think that's the most important scenario for application developers

Reviewer 2: Perhaps this should be added when we have an example application for such usecase?

My expectation would be that to do that you need to:
- add contents of `nordic-flpr-*` overlay to app devicetree
- add sub-image with FLPR target to sysbuild
- build for app target
- flash will cover both targets

Reviewer: It's fine for me to add this later. Probably it would be good to explicitly state that this usage scenario is not documented yet and for now, we recommend using FLPR as the main CPU in multi-core projects.

At least I, as an application developer, would be surprised by the suggestion of using FLPR as the main CPU and I would be looking for other options

Author: Added a note, please double-check (line 42), switched the order of these sections as per Marcin's suggestions

Reviewer: Continuing this discussion in a comment on the note: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/17443#discussion_r1827439901

-------------

To build and program with sysbuild, complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Using VPR Launcher

      When using the VPR Launcher, the default configuration is employed for building with sysbuild targeting FLPR devices.
      This process involves creating a minimal image that will be flashed onto the application core.
      The primary function of this image is to transfer the FLPR code to the designated region (if necessary) and initiate the FLPR core.

      To build and flash both images, run the following command:

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr
         west flash

>    .. group-tab:: Using application that aupports multi-image builds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. group-tab:: Using application that supports multi-image builds
```

      If your application involves creating custom images for both the application core and the FLPR core, make sure to disable the VPR Launcher.
      You can do this by disabling the ``SB_CONFIG_VPR_LAUNCHER=n`` option when building for the FLPR target.

>       In case your application creates custom images for both application core and FLPR core, make sure to disable VPR lanucher with `SB_CONFIG_VPR_LAUNCHER` when building for FLPR target.

Reviewer: This paragraph seems redundant with the previous one.

Author: removed, thanks!

This process complements the standard building procedure.
While building for the application core follows the default process, if you wish to utilize the FLPR core you must use additional configuration to enable it.

Building for the application core
*********************************

For instructions on building for the application core only, see how to :ref:`build an application <building>`.

Building for the application and FLPR core
******************************************

This section outlines how to build and program for both the application and FLPR core, covering separate builds and sysbuild configurations.
FLPR core supports two variants:

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr`` where FLPR runs from SRAM, which is the recommended method.
  To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr`` snippet.

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr/xip`` where FLPR runs from RRAM.
  To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr-xip`` snippet.

Standard build
--------------

This subsection focuses on how to build an application using sysbuild.

.. note::

>    We recommend using FLPR as the main CPU in multi-core projects.
>    Currently, the documentation does not cover specific instructions for building an application image that uses sysbuild to incorporate the FLPR core as a sub-image.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say we recommend it. I would stick to the 2nd sentence only to describe the limitation of the current solution.
```suggestion
   Currently, the documentation does not cover specific instructions for building an application image that uses sysbuild to incorporate the FLPR core as a sub-image.
   The only documented scenario is for building FLPR as the main CPU and the application as a sub-image.
```

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase last sentence to `FLPR as the main image and the application as a sub-image`.
FLPR is supposed to be a coprocessor, so calling it main CPU is misleading.
APP can be a sub-image and still do most of the work.

Author: applied as suggested

Complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Using VPR Launcher

>       VPR launcher is a minimal sample that allows to start the FLPR core.

Author: Right - removed that part

>       VPR launcher is a minimal sample that allows to start the FLPR core.

Reviewer 4: > VPR launcher is a minimal sample built for an ARM core that starts given VPR core.

This is what https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/blob/main/soc/nordic/common/vpr/Kconfig.sysbuild#L9-L11 from @masz-nordic states. With the comment from @wbober  ("This is not a sample per se."), the Kconfig description is clearly wrong and needs to be fixed.

To be honest, I don't think we should use the name "VPR launcher" at all - not here nor in the Kconfig.
For me, the name suggests an external app or a tool. I can imagine some users will have a similar idea.
If it is a minimal sample with a snippet, it is clearly not a tool or an external app.

The current edit ("VPR launcher allows to start the FLPR core.") is unfortunately not addressing my original comment anymore because it doesn't provide a clear definition.

Please change this before merging this PR.

>       When using the VPR Launcher, the default configuration is employed for building with sysbuild targeting FLPR devices.

Author: Reworded this part

>       To build and flash both images, run the following command that performs a :ref:`pristine build <zephyr:west-building>`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      This option automatically programs the FLPR core with :ref:`dedicated bootstrapping firmware <vpr_flpr_nrf54l15_initiating>`.
      
      To build and flash both images, run the following command that performs a :ref:`pristine build <zephyr:west-building>`:
```

      The primary function of this image is to transfer the FLPR code to the designated region (if necessary) and initiate the FLPR core.

      To build and flash both images, run the following command:

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr
         west flash

   .. group-tab:: Using application that supports multi-image builds

      If your application involves creating custom images for both the application core and the FLPR core, make sure to disable the VPR Launcher.

>       You can do this by disabling the ``SB_CONFIG_VPR_LAUNCHER`` option when building for the FLPR target.

Author: @masz-nordic , could you please confirm?

>       You can do this by disabling the ``SB_CONFIG_VPR_LAUNCHER`` option when building for the FLPR target.

Reviewer 2: I'm not an expert on usecases, but I would assume that a typical one would be building for APP with sysbuild enabled and having FLPR as sub-image.
Assumption is that when building for FLPR target user is more focused on FLPR code development.

      For more details, see :ref:`how to configure Kconfig <configuring_kconfig>`.

      To build and flash both images, run the following command:

      .. code-block:: console

>          west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr

Author: @masz-nordic is this the correct command?

>          west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr

Reviewer 2: Yes

---------------

You can build and program application sample and the FLPR sample as separate images using the |nRFVSC| or command line.
To use nRF Util, see `Programming application firmware on the nRF54L15 SoC`_.
Depending on the selected method, complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: nRF Connect for VS Code

      .. note::

>          The Visual Studio Code extension currently offers experimental support for the nRF54L15's FLPR core.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
         The |nRFVSC| currently offers experimental support for the nRF54L15's FLPR core.
```

      .. note::

         The Visual Studio Code extension currently offers experimental support for the nRF54L15's FLPR core.

>          Certain features, particularly debugging, may not function as expected.

Reviewer 3: Looks very nice. Thank you for adding this note.
It has already been mentioned that 2 separate firmwares are built for 2 different cores, but the guide shows it like consecutive steps of building a single firmware. Can I ask for an explicit division between application core and flpr. For example:
`

      3.  Build the Application image. Set the following options:

         * Board target to ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``.
         * Choose either ``nordic-flpr`` or ``nordic-flpr-xip`` snippet depending on the flpr image target
         * System build to :guilabel:`No sysbuild`.

         For more information, see :ref:`cmake_options`.
      
      #. Build the FLPR image. Set the following options:

         * Board target to ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr`` (recommended) or ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr/xip``.
         * System build to :guilabel:`No sysbuild`.

         For more information, see :ref:`cmake_options`.

`

Author: added

.. _building_nrf54l:

Building and programming with nRF54L15 DK
#########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This guide provides instructions on how to build and program the nRF54L15 development kit.
Whether you are working with single or multi-image builds, the following sections will guide you through the necessary steps.

Depending on the sample, you must program only the application core or both the Fast Lightweight Peripheral Processor (FLPR) and the application core.
Additionally, the process will differ based on whether you are working with a single-image or multi-image build.

.. note::
   The following instructions do not include multi-image single-core builds scenario.

> This process complements the standard building procedure.
> While building for the application core follows the default process, if you wish to utilize the FLPR core you must use additional configuration to enable it.
> 
> Building for the application core
> *********************************
> 
> For instructions on building for the application core only, see how to :ref:`build an application <building>`.
> 
> Building for the application and FLPR core
> ******************************************
> 
> This section outlines how to build and program for both the application and FLPR core, covering separate builds and sysbuild configurations.
> The FLPR core supports two variants:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Building for the application core only
*************************************

Building for the application core only follows the default building process for the |NCS|.
For instructions, see how the :ref:`building` page.

Building for the application and FLPR core
******************************************

Building for both the application and the FLPR cores is different from the default |NCS| procedure.
Using the FLPR core also requires additional configuration to enable it.

This section outlines how to build and program for both the application and FLPR core, covering separate builds and sysbuild configurations.
The FLPR core supports two variants:
```

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr``, where FLPR runs from SRAM, which is the recommended method.

>   To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr`` snippet.
> 
> * ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr/xip``, where FLPR runs from RRAM.
>   To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr-xip`` snippet.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr`` :ref:`snippet <app_build_snippets>`.

* ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr/xip``, where FLPR runs from RRAM.
  To build FLPR image with this variant, the application core image must include the ``nordic-flpr-xip`` snippet.
```

Standard build
--------------

> This subsection focuses on how to build an application using sysbuild.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This subsection focuses on how to build an application using :ref:`sysbuild <configuration_system_overview_sysbuild>`.
```

.. note::
   Currently, the documentation does not cover specific instructions for building an application image that uses sysbuild to incorporate the FLPR core as a sub-image.
   The only documented scenario is for building FLPR as the main image and the application as a sub-image.

Complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Using VPR Launcher

>       VPR launcher allows to start the FLPR core.

Reviewer 4: This is not saying what VPR Launcher is. See my answer to the first comment from @wbober .

      When building for the ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr`` target, the launcher loads the minimal sample to the application core by default.
      The primary function of this image is to transfer the FLPR code to the designated region (if necessary) and initiate the FLPR core.

>       To build and flash both images, run the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      To build and flash both images, run the following command that performs a :ref:`pristine build <zephyr:west-building>`:
```

      .. code-block:: console

         west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr
         west flash

   .. group-tab:: Using application that supports multi-image builds

      If your application involves creating custom images for both the application core and the FLPR core, make sure to disable the VPR Launcher.
      You can do this by disabling the ``SB_CONFIG_VPR_LAUNCHER`` option when building for the FLPR target.
      For more details, see :ref:`how to configure Kconfig <configuring_kconfig>`.

>       To build and flash both images, run the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      To build and flash both images, run the following command that performs a :ref:`pristine build <zephyr:west-building>`:
```

         The Visual Studio Code extension currently offers experimental support for the nRF54L15's FLPR core.
         Certain features, particularly debugging, may not function as expected.

      .. include:: /includes/vsc_build_and_run.txt

      3. Build the application image by setting the following options:

         * Board target to ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp``.
         * Choose either ``nordic-flpr`` or ``nordic-flpr-xip`` snippet depending on the FLPR image target.
         * System build to :guilabel:`No sysbuild`.

         For more information, see :ref:`cmake_options`.

      #. Build the FLPR image by setting the following options:

         * Board target to ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr`` (recommended) or ``nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr/xip``.
         * System build to :guilabel:`No sysbuild`.

         For more information, see :ref:`cmake_options`.

   .. group-tab:: Command line

      1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|
      #. Build the application core image, and based on your build target include the appropriate snippet:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp -S nordic-flpr --no-sysbuild

>       #. Flash the application core image by running the following command:
> 
>          .. code-block:: console
> 
>             west flash

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      #. Program the application core image by running the `west flash` command :ref:`without --erase <programming_params_no_erase>`.
```
"Flash" is not allowed as per https://nordicsemi.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/TECHDOC/pages/120298016/Terms+abbreviations+and+spelling+rules#Terms,abbreviations,andspellingrules-P

      #. Build the FLPR core image:

         .. code-block:: console

            west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr --no-sysbuild

         You can also customize the command for additional options, by adding :ref:`build parameters <optional_build_parameters>`.

>       #. Once you have successfully built the FLPR core image, flash it onto your device:
> 
>          .. code-block:: console
> 
>             west flash

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      #. Once you have successfully built the FLPR core image, program it by running the `west flash` command :ref:`without --erase <programming_params_no_erase>`.
```

.. _building_nrf54l:

> 

Author: contents toctree tba

         .. code-block:: console

            west flash --erase

   .. group-tab:: nRF Util

      1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|
      #. For the FLPR core, run the following command to erase the flash memory of the FLPR core and program the sample:

         .. Commands TBD

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil device program --firmware zephyr.hex --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_ALL --core Network

      #. For the application core, navigate to its build folder and run:

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil device program --firmware zephyr.hex  --options chip_erase_mode=ERASE_ALL

         .. note::
            The application build folder will be in a sub-directory which is the name of the folder of the application

      #. Reset the development kit:

         .. Commands TBD

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil device reset --reset-kind=RESET_PIN

         See :ref:`readback_protection_error` if you encounter an error.

With sysbuild
-------------

To build and program with sysbuild, complete the following steps:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Using VPR Launcher

>       Instructions TBA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      This is the default configuration when building with sysbuild for FLPR targets. A minimal image will be built and flashed to application core. It's purpose is to copy FLPR code to appropriate region (if needed) and start FLPR.
      
      Build and flash both images:
      
      .. code-block:: console
      
         west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr
         west flash
```

      .. code-block:: console

         # Example command TBD

   .. group-tab:: Using application that aupports multi-image builds

>       Instructions TBA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      In case your application creates custom images for both application core and FLPR core, make sure to disable VPR lanucher with `SB_CONFIG_VPR_LAUNCHER=n` when building for FLPR target.
      
      Build and flash both images:
      
      .. code-block:: console
      
         west build -p -b nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuflpr
         west flash
```
